# IMDB How many episodes should you make?
This project estimates how the number of episodes affect the rating of a TV show, and if this differs between adult and non-adult titles. We created a tool to accurately predict the average rating. This tool helps producers making more informed decisions with regards to the episode count when creating TV shows.

## Research motivation
The relationship between the number of episodes a TV show is set to have and its average rating is a crucial yet insufficiently studied area in the field of media research. Since competition among streaming platforms and TV networks is rising, uncovering and understanding any factor that may influence TV show rating is paramount for optimizing content. Moreover, as adult shows may benefit from having more episodes due to possibly having more complex or mature story lines, researching whether the effect of episode count on ratings differ for this genre offers additional value to this research. This study therefore aims to answer the question: "To what extent does the number of a TV show's episodes impact its average rating, and does this differ between adult titles and non-adult titles?" The insights gained from this research could assist producers in making more informed decisions with regards to episode count when creating content.

A multiple linear regression will be the applied research method, with average show rating as the dependent variable. The independent variables will consist of the continuous variable "number of episodes", as well as the dummy variable "adult title" (with 1 for adult shows, 0 for non-adult shows). By including the interaction term episodesXadult, we can also assess a potential difference in effect between adult versus non-adult movies. This linear regression method effectively addresses the objective of this research as it quantifies the impact of episode count ratings while also allowing an interaction term to assess whether this effect differs for the adult genre.

## Research question
"To what extent does the number of a TV show's episodes impact its average rating, and does this differ between adult titles and non-adult titles?"
